# Contemporary Issues In Data

In this document, I discuss two articles about big data and views on the advantages versus disadvantages of large-scale data collection.

## Article 1: ["How Small Businesses Can Take Advantage of Big Data"](https://www.business.com/articles/data-analysis-for-small-business/)

Big data has the power to transform many industries and can support business operations and decision-making. Big data describes the large amounts of data a business creates through their operations. The article notes two categories of big data: structured data, which is well organized and easy to search, and unstructured data, which is raw and unorganized and thus more challenging to manage and analyze. However, with each types of data, there are various machine learning and AI tools that can help organizations draw insights from them, such as supervised and unsupervised ML algorithms which work respectively with labeled and unlabeled data. This article also notes the many advantages of big data for businesses, and how even small businesses can take advantage of data technologies. The benefits of big data include real-time insights, reduction in inefficiencies, cuts in costs, better quality control, improvements in marketing results, better customer experience, and competitive advantage. Essentially, big data contains a significant quantity of information that companies can draw upon to make both immediate and long-term decisions to grow their companies and drive profit.

Previously, when data was collected, there were no technologies and methodologies that could be used to analyze this data. Today, these technologies and techniques are widely available and are being utilized for various businesses globally. As Data Science, Business Analytics, and similar fields are increasingly being developed, researched, and promoted, companies are almost expected to at least consider using data analytics in some form to gain an edge in their respective industries. Since data can be easily accessible, even small businesses can draw upon data to grow their companies. For example, social media analytics such as on Instagram can tell small business owners the number of people who view their posts in order to determine how successful their marketing strategies are. As long as someone poses the right questions and knows the right tools to use, big data can create a significant impact.

## Article 2: ["The Dangers of Too Much Data"](https://builtin.com/data-science/dangers-of-too-much-data)

While the previous article notes the many advantages of big data, this article notes that the significant collection of data does come with certain risks. A lot of discussion over the past year or two have revolved around data privacy and government regulation of AI technologies. One must ask: how is our data being sourced? Is it safe? Is it of good quality? How can it be stored and processed? These questions deal with the long-term. There is no denying that data analysis can greatly impact all kinds of companies in all sorts of industries. But at what cost in the long-term? Will we compensate security for short-term profit and benefits?

One of the dangers of big data is that "more data does not mean better data". Data is constantly being collected, coming from various sources and being stored together. How do we know if this data is organized or cohesive in any way? If we analyze it, how will we attain accurate results that will genuinely support businesses? The article refers to the "signal-to-noise" ratio, meaning that there must be a balance between the signal (the important information) and the noise (unnecessary information). It is possible that too much data can create too much noise which distracts from the signal. Another danger of big data is, of course, privacy risks. Collecting data means tracking significant user behaviors without consent. Even if your iPhone asks for permission to track you and you do not agree, your phone is likely still collecting information. This puts into question the ethical nature of data, and how much businesses can encroach upon its consumers' privacy to collect information for greater profit. Governments are increasingly looking for solutions to these data risks. Other dangers also include more misinformation (think of ChatGPT giving incorrect results), endagering consumers with inaccurate data (such as covering-up crime), and trouble increasing capacity for data storage and its contribution to carbon emissions.

Businesses must consider balancing between the many benefits of data analysis with these risks. These are very contemporary issues and solutions are being developed over time. If data can become more clean and organized while being collected and managed in an intentional and not controlling manner, then perhaps big data's advantages can balance out its disadvantages.
